Brown Acronyms – Bear Lingo
.5 or Point-Five "Point-Five" is the colloquial designation for an undergraduate student who completes
degree requirements in December rather than May. For example, a student who was
scheduled to graduate in May 2012, took a one-semester leave, and finished in December
2012 would be considered '12.5 or Twelve-point-five.
ABC/NC A grade option of ABC/No Credit. The other grade option is S/NC, or Satisfactory/No
Credit. Students may choose their grade option for most courses. A few courses are
mandatory S/NC.
ACP Academic Priorities Committee
ADOCH A Day on College Hill. A two-day program offered in campus in the spring for students
who have been admitted to Brown and are trying to decide if Brown is the right place for
them.
AM Artium Magistri (Master of Arts degree)
AMS The Warren Alpert Medical School (*this acronym should never be used on websites or
public facing correspondence)
Banner Brown's secure student information system, which includes student course registration,
grades, and contact information.
BCBI Brown Center for Biomedical Informatics
BCSC The Brown Center for Students of Color
BDH Brown Daily Herald, the student newspaper
BearBucks Debit account linked to a student's Brown ID Card. Used for on-campus payment for
laundry, copying, printing, Brown Pharmacy, Campus Market, Bookstore and Computer
Store, etc. See the Bear Bucks entry under Financial Matters this page.
Bears' Lair Satellite fitness center located in the Graduate Center E residence hall.
BMFA BioMed Faculty Administration
BMFP BioMed Finance and Planning
BMFPO BioMed Facilities Planning and Operations
BMHR BioMed Human Resources
BMRA BioMed Research Administration
BPI Brown Physician’s Inc.
BrUOG Brown University Oncology Research Group
Bursar The Bursar's Office manages the billing and collection of student
accounts. http://www.brown.edu/bursar
CARE Center for Animal Resources and Education
CareerLAB Careers and Life After Brown = CareerLAB, Brown's center for career development and
services.
CAS Committee on Academic Standing. The most general responsibility of the Committee on
Academic Standing is to monitor the academic progress of undergraduates, to ensure
that candidates for the baccalaureate degree have met all degree requirements, and to
inform students whose progress toward the degree is deficient. The Committee also
hears petitions from students regarding readmission from academic suspension, 
admission to several concurrent degree programs at Brown, and exceptions to academic
regulations.
CCC College Curriculum Council
CCC College Curriculum Council
CGS Council of Graduate Schools
CME Continuing Medical Education
Concentration What other schools call a "major." Explore all Brown concentrations on Focal Point
at brown.edu/go/focalpoint.
Course load The standard course load is 4 courses per semester, fall and spring. Almost all courses
equal one credit. There are a few courses that are half-credit (0.5); examples include
Orchestra and Applied Music. Full-time students may enroll in 3 to 5 course credits, but
may not enroll for more than five Brown credits in a semester.
CPR Course Performance Report
CRC Curricular Resource Center
CTR Advanced Clinical Translational Research
DCP Dissertation Completion Proposal
DEP Dissertation Extension Proposal
DGS Director of Graduate Studies (same as GPD)
DIAP Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP)
DOF Dean of the Faculty
DOL Department of Labor
Doubleconcentrating
Completing two concentrations as an undergraduate student -- for example Economics
and Visual Art, or Development Studies and Political Science. Two is not better than
one! The Brown Curriculum affords students both freedom and obligation to pursue
their passions; sometimes those passions fall in two academic areas and lead to
a double-concentration. Students must fulfill the requirements of both concentration
programs. Many concentrations limit the number of courses that can be counted
toward multiple concentrations (e.g., you may be able to "double count" only two);
students should inquire about such policies with both concentrations. The names of
students' concentrations do not appear on diplomas.
DPHB Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior
EEOB Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology
ESRP Enrollment Satisfied, Requirements Pending (formerly ETRP or TP status)
ETD Electronic Theses Dissertation System
FEC Faculty Executive Committee
FERPA Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
Flex Points Part of a student's Meal Plan. See Dining Services.
GEF Graduate Education Fund
GISP Group Independent Study Project. A group of students, with a faculty advisor, may
develop credit-bearing courses that are not a regular part of the Brown curriculum.
Students create a curriculum, syllabus and reading list for the semester-long course; a
formal application and proposal is submitted for consideration by the College Curriculum
Council (CCC). The Curricular Resource Center assists students in proposing GISPs.
GPA Grade Point Average. Brown does not compute GPAs for students. See GPA Statement on
the Registrar's page and additional information on the website of the Dean of the College.
GPD Graduate Program Director (same as DGS)
GRE Graduate Record Exam
GSIM Graduate School Information System
HUG Highly underrepresented groups (of students)
ISP Independent Study Project. Many academic departments offer independent research or
reading courses. Students may also initiate, design, and execute independent study
projects with the help of faculty advisors. Brown students studying abroad have the
option of crafting a Global Independent Study Project (GLISP) with a Brown faculty
member.
LCA Labor Condition Application
Lottery Housing Lottery or Housing Selection. See the Housing entry under Life on Campus, this
page.
MAT Masters of Arts in Teaching
MCB Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry
MCC Medical Curriculum Council
MFA Masters of Fine Arts
MMI Molecular Microbiology and Immunology
MPA Masters of Public Affairs
MPH Masters of Public Health
NEURO Neuroscience
NIH National Institute of Health
NRSA National Research Service Award
NSF National Science Foundation
ODMA Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs
Office hours Blocks of time during the day that faculty or deans make available specifically for students
to stop by for advice, assistance, or conversation. Professors typically post-office hours
each semester on their websites, office doors and course syllabi so that students know
when they are available.
OGPS Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
OIP Office of International Programs. This office manages study abroad opportunities for
students.
OISSS Office of International Student and Scholar Services
OMAC Olney-Margolies Athletic Center. Location of recreational track and basketball/volleyball
courts, and many varsity team locker rooms.
PATHO Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
PDF Postdoctoral Fellows
PDRA Postdoctoral Research Associates
PDRF Postdoctoral Research Fellows
PI Principal Investigator
PLME Program in Liberal Medical Education 
PLME Spoken as plee'-me or P-L-M-E, Brown’s Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME)
combines undergraduate education (baccalaureate) and professional studies in medicine
(MD) in a single eight-year program.
Ratty The Sharpe Refectory, the main dining hall. Located on Wriston Quad.
Reading Period Traditionally, Reading Period is a series of days before Final Exams begin used for
additional study. Reading Period is optional and at the discretion of each course
instructor. Some courses continue with instruction through Reading Period; others cease
instruction of new material to focus on preparation for an exam or production of a final
paper.
Registrar A Registrar is an official keeper of records. The Registrar's Office at Brown maintains
students' academic records, records course registrations, assigns classrooms, issues
reports of grades and transcripts, and verifies student enrollment.
S/NC A grade option of Satisfactory/No Credit, equivalent to Pass/Fail. Students may choose to
take almost any course S/NC. Some courses are mandatory S/NC (meaning that S/NC is
the only grade option available for that course).
SAS Student and Accessibility Services
SCM Scientiae Magistri (Master of Science degree)
Shopping Period The first two weeks of Fall and Spring Semester, built into the academic calendar, during
which students are expected to confirm pre-registration and/or explore new courses to
finalize their course registration. Work is assigned and students are expected to keep up
or to catch up if they join a course during Shopping Period. Course registration changes
during this time are without charge; courses added after Shopping Period incur a fee for
each change.
Swearer Center The Swearer Center for Public Service
TA & TA II Teaching Assistant
TSV Total Support Volume
TWTP The Third World Transition Program is a several-day program prior to general Orientation
in the fall. Begun in 1979, TWTP has evolved to meet the changing needs of students
while maintaining the values of self-reflection and open dialogue about difficult and
complex issues. Available to all entering students, the uniqueness of TWTP lies in the
commitment to talk about issues of race, gender, class, imperialism, heterosexism and
homophobia with the incoming class of first-year students.
UHR University Human Resources
USCIS United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
Verney Woolley Dining hall on the Pembroke Campus, located on the ground floor of the MorrissChamplin/Emery-Woolley residential complex.
VW Also "Vee-Dub." The Verney-Woolley dining hall, located on the Pembroke Campus.
WD Workday

https://www.brown.edu/campus-life/support/families/glossary-brown-university-terms-andacronyms